Invoking the Blessings of the Kagyü Lineage—‘Dorjechang Thungma’
by Bengar Jampal Zangpo

dorjé chang chen telo naro dang
Great Vajradhara, Tilopa and Nāropa,
marpa mila chöjé gampopa
Marpa, Milarepa, and Gampopa, lord of Dharma,
dü sum sheja künkhyen karmapa
You who know all past, present and future—the Karmapa,
che shyi chung gyé gyüpar dzin nam dang
Holders of the four earlier and eight later lineages,
dri tak tsal sum palden drukpa sok
Drikung, Taklung, Tsalpa, the glorious Drukpa and the rest,
zablam chakgya ché la nganyepé
Masters of the profound path of Mahāmudrā,
nyammé dro gön dakpo kagyü la
Unequalled protectors of beings, the Dakpo Kagyü,
solwa deb so kagyü lama nam
To all of you,  the Kagyü lamas, I pray: inspire me
gyüpa dzin no namtar jingyi lob
With your blessing to uphold this lineage, and follow you to liberation.

shyenlok gom gyi kangpar sungpa shyin
Revulsion for saṃsāra is the feet of meditation; so it is taught.
zé nor kün la chak shyen mepa dang
Free of craving and attachment to things like food and wealth,
tsé di dö takchöpé gomchen la
Having severed the ties to this life, inspire this meditator
nyekur shyenpa mepar jingyi lob
With your blessing, to be rid of addiction to possessions and fame.

mögü gom gyi gowor sungpa shyin
Devotion is the head of meditation; so it is taught.
mengak tergo jepé lama la
The lama opens the door to the treasure of the pith instructions;
gyündu solwa debpé gomchen la
Praying constantly to him, inspire this meditator
chömin mögü kyewar jingyi lob
With your blessing, so that uncontrived devotion is born within me.

yengmé gom gyi ngöshyir sungpa shyin
Non-distraction is the main body of meditation; so it is taught.
gangshar tokpé ngowo soma dé
Whatever arises, in that very essence of thought, fresh, natural,
machö dekar jokpé gomchen la
Unaltered—leaving it just there, inspire this meditator
gomja lo dangdral bar jingyi lob
With your blessing, so my meditation is free from conceptual mind.

namtok ngowo chökur sungpa shyin
The nature of thoughts is dharmakāya; so it is taught.
chiyang mayin chiryang charwa la
They are nothing whatsoever, yet appear as anything at all,
magak rolpa charwé gomchen la
Arising as an unceasing display; inspire this meditator
khordé yermé tokpar jingyi lob
With your blessing, to realize that saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are not separate.

kyewa küntu yangdak lama dang
In all my lives, may I never be separate
dralmé chö kyi pal la longchö ching
From the perfect lama, and so enjoy the splendour of Dharma;
sa dang lam gyi yönten rabdzok né
Mastering completely the qualities of the path and stages,
dorjé chang gi gopang nyur tob shok
May I swiftly attain the sublime state of Vajradhara.

Composed by Bengar Jampal Zangpo

| Rigpa Translations, 2011

Version 1.1-20210805