Prayer to the Kagyü Masters
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

namo guru
Namo guru!
dorjé chang chen telo naro dang
Great Vajradhara, Tilopa and Nāropa,
mar mi dakpo tatsa dri tak ling
Marpa, Mila, Dakpo and all the other gurus
ka shyi gyüpé lama tamché kyi
Of the Four Kagyü lineages—Tatsa,1 Drikung, Taktsang and Lingré,2
dengdir dak sok jingyi lab tu sol
Inspire us with your blessings here and now, I pray.

khyepar drenda kündral trulpé ku
The successors of Düsum Khyenpa in particular,
dü sum khyenpé ku yi kyerab treng
That nirmāṇakāya who is entirely without equal,
rimpar jönpa kün la solwa deb
To all these garland-like incarnations, I pray:
dengdir dak sok jingyi lab tu sol
Inspire us with your blessings here and now.

dechen wang drak rolpé podrang né
From the palace that is the display of blissful power and wrath,
dü sum gyalwé trinlépa chenpo
Great fulfiller of the activity of the buddhas of the three times,
drubchen chökyi lamar solwa deb
Magnificent adept Chökyi Lama, to you I pray:3
dengdir dak sok jingyi lab tu sol
Inspire us with your blessings here and now.

ku ni pema heruka chenpo
In enlightened form, you are the great Padma Heruka,
sung ni drak tong ngak kyi drachen drok
Your speech resonating with the great mantra sound of audible emptiness,
tuk ni chöying künkhyab ösal ché
And your wisdom mind the great clear light of all-pervading dharmadhātu—
lama karmapa la solwa deb
Guru Karmapa, to you I pray:
dengdir dak sok jingyi lab tu sol
Inspire us with your blessings here and now.

tenyo nangsi tamché zil gyi nön
Your splendour overwhelms the whole animate and inanimate world, appearance and existence,
yeshe ku ni trodü gar gyi ji
Your wisdom form resplendent in its dance of emanation and absorption,
gongpa mingyur kha tar dak ching yang
Your realization unchanging, and as pure and vast as space—
naljor wangchuk chenpor solwa deb
Great lord of yogins, to you I pray:
dengdir dak sok jingyi lab tu sol
Inspire us with your blessings here and now.

nyikdü damsi gyalgong kün gyi shé
Enemy of all the damsi and gyalgong spirits of this degenerate age,
lama palchen drakpö kyilkhor pa
Guru who embodies all the deities of the maṇḍala
jinyé chik tu düpé karmapa
Of the glorious and wrathful, Karmapa—
pakshi chenpö shyab la solwa deb
Great Pakshi, at your feet I pray:
dengdir wangkur jingyi lab tu sol
Inspire us with your blessings here and now.

nedön nöpa shyiwar jingyi lob
Inspire us to pacify sickness, obstructing forces and harm.
tsé chö taru chinpar jingyi lob
Inspire us to practise Dharma for the full duration of our lives.
kyedzok tingdzin tenpar jingyi lob
Inspire us to stabilize the absorptions of generation and perfection.
rangsem chökur tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire us to realize the dharmakāya nature of our own minds.
lama khyé dang nyampar jingyi lob
Inspire us to emulate you, the guru.

Written on the twenty-fifth of Saga Dawa.4

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bka' brgyud spyi ba'i gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3:
203–204
↑ An alternative name for Pagmodrupa.↑ Lingré (gling ras) here refers to Lingjé Repa Pema Dorje
(1128–1188), founder of the Drukpa Kagyü.↑ Chökyi Lama is an alternative name for Karma
Pakshi, the second Karmapa.↑ Saga Dawa is the holy fourth month of the Tibetan calendar
during which the anniversaries of the Buddha’s birth, enlightenment and parinirvāṇa fall.