The Honey of Devotion
A Prayer to the Garland of Glorious Karmapa Incarnations
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

gyalwa kün gyi trinlé pel
You extended the activity of all the victorious ones,
rik sum chikdü karma pa
The three buddha families in a single embodiment,
dü sum khyenpa mi yi jé
Karmapa Düsum Khyenpa, lord among men,
jikten drenpar solwa deb
Guide for all the world, to you I pray.

nangsi yeshe chakgyé teb
You applied the wisdom seal to appearance and existence,
dechen zungjuk drubpé tso
As the foremost adept of the unity of great bliss,
naljor wangchuk heruka
Lord of yogis, heruka—
chö kyi lamar solwa deb
Chökyi Lama, to you I pray.

chenrezik wang mi yi zuk
Lord Avalokiteśvara in human form,
tenpé khorlö khyen rabchen
With the wisdom of Sthiracakra,1
sangwa gyatsö ngadak chok
Supreme sovereign of oceanic secrets2—
rangjung dorjér solwa deb
Rangjung Dorje, to you I pray.

gyalsé jang chen chöpa lé
Through the great awakening activity of a bodhisattva,
nyingtob gocha tenpo shyé
You gained the secure armour of courage,
shyen la penpé tsalak chok
Supreme friend who strives to benefit others—
rolpé dorjér solwa deb
Rolpé Dorje, to you I pray.

lhar ché sishyi tsuk gi nor
Crown jewel of all existence and peace, including the heavens,
tenyo chakgya chenpor dom
Who brings the animate and inanimate within the great seal, Mahāmudrā,
gangjong tenpa yong kyi dak
Master of all the teachings of the Land of Snows—
deshyin shekpar solwa deb
Deshin Shekpa, to you I pray.

tsultrim pungpo rab ji ching
Utterly resplendent in your extensive ethical restraint,
tingdzin chok lé mi da shying
You never part from supreme meditative absorption,
sherab zabmö pal changwa
And maintain the wonder of profound intelligence—
tongwa dönden solwa deb
Tongwa Dönden, to you I pray.

tsarchö jedzin tu drub ching
You gained the capacity to nurture and eliminate,
khé dang tsünpé pul du gyur
Most excellent among the learned and venerable,
khyen nü tsewé ter chenpo
Great treasury of wisdom, power and love—
chödrak gyatsor solwa deb
Chödrak Gyatso, to you I pray.

mi trokpa yi tuk nga shying
Possessor of an indomitable wisdom mind,
zab dön mengak gyatsö dzö
Treasury of infinite profound pith instructions,
kham sum chökyi gyalpo chok
Supreme dharma sovereign of the three realms—
mi kyö dorjér solwa deb
Mikyö Dorje, to you I pray.

pak chen sa la rab shyuk shing
Well established on the noble stages,
lung rik norbu drampa dal
Bestrewn with jewels of scripture and reasoning,
ché tsö tsom la nyeng dralwa
And fearless in explanation, debate and composition—
wangchuk dorjér solwa deb
Wangchuk Dorje, to you I pray.

chö gyé gyumar taktu zik
Always seeing the illusion of the eight worldly concerns,
ronyom tulshyuk drubpé tso
Foremost of adepts in the discipline of equal taste,
lhakpé lha yi jesu zung
Cared for and guided by the supreme deity—
chöying dorjér solwa deb
Chöying Dorje, to you I pray.

lé lung dhuti ying su ching
Binding the karmic winds in the space of dhūti,3
küntu tokpa tamché zé
You brought all conceptual thought to exhaustion,
pomé zungjuk chakgyé ku
In the kāya of the seal of union beyond transference—
yeshe dorjér solwa deb
Yeshe Dorje, to you I pray.

pang tok yönten jewé ter
Treasury of billionfold qualities of relinquishment and realization,
do ngak chö tsul jungné ché
Great source of sūtra and mantra dharma systems,
kalden ku shyir trir dzepa
Guiding the fortunate to the four kāyas,
changchub dorjér solwa deb
Changchub Dorje, to you I pray.

takpar semchen dön la tsön
Forever striving for the sake of sentient beings,
tö sam gompa tar sön ching
Having perfected study, reflection and meditation,
dön nyi lhündrub chö kyi jé
Lord of Dharma, you spontaneously accomplish twofold benefit—
tek chok dorjér solwa deb
Tekchok Dorje, to you I pray.

khorlo dompa mi yi zuk
Cakrasaṃvara in human form,
khyabdak dorjé sempé ku
Embodiment of the all-pervading Vajrasattva,
rik nam kündü kyilkhor tso
Sovereign of the maṇḍala of all buddha families—
khakhyab dorjér solwa deb
Khakhyab Dorje, to you I pray.

si di jisi né kyi bar
For as long as existence itself continues,
pakchok trulpa gyün mi ché
May these most exalted emanations appear,
puljung ngotsar tam mang gi
And fill the whole of this wealth-bearing world
nordzin khyön kün khyab gyur chik
With an abundance of excellent, wondrous advice.

dak kyang deng né changchub bar
May I too be guided by, and never apart from,
gönpö dralmé jezung shying
This protector from now until enlightenment,
gyalwa sengé ngaro dang
And when I ultimately attain perfect awakening
yermé ngönpar changchub shok
May I be inseparable from the conqueror Lion’s Roar.4

Chökyi Lodrö offered this prayer. Siddhirastu. May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros . "dpal ldan karma pa'i skyes rabs phreng ba'i gsol 'debs/."
In gsung 'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/. 12 vols. Bir, H.P.: Khyentse Labrang,
2012 (BDRC W1KG12986). Vol. 3: 265–267.

Version: 1.2-20220118
↑ Sthiracakra (brtan pa’i ’khor lo) is an epithet of Mañjuśrī.↑ A reference to Vajrapāṇi, Lord
of Secrets.↑ i.e., avadhūti or the central channel.↑ The Karmapas are said to be emanations
of a future buddha named Lion’s Roar.